# A (Living) Framework for Handling Conflict through Community Care

When a conflict occurs, it is helpful to identify and analyze the impetus for the incident and any lead-up or contributory factors. Many times, the issue that needs to be addressed is not the issue that is being manifested in a person’s thoughts or behaviors. Solving surface-level problems (e.g. through punishment for a crime) does not address the root causes of those problems; as a result, surface-level problems constantly repeat themselves in both an individual’s life and in the greater community in which the individual exists. Only by addressing root causes of visible conflict can we even hope to eradicate the conflicts themselves. Too often, the community is at fault for these root causes. Querying the contributory factors of instances of erratic behavior, physical violence, grand theft, or emotional manipulation can shine light on aspects of our community that need work. When we work to improve our community, we all benefit.

When a conflict occurs between two or more people, it is necessary to allow each party to represent their side of events. When possible, this can be conducted as a joint mediation where each party can hear and eventually respond to other versions of events. This sharing period is helpful for identifying the root causes of a given issue. Many times, miscommunication leads people to view the same interaction in different ways. Joint mediation is very helpful for identifying cases of miscommunication.

The injured party must then be offered an opportunity to request reparations that are appropriate, specific, and measurable. Reparations may be requested of the injuring party and/or of the community at-large.

When an individual is experiencing a primarily personal conflict, we still seek to understand the contributory, sometimes hidden, factors which precipitated the event. Besides changing the community, understanding the underlying causes can help the individual and their community identify triggers that may precede future episodes and methods for community and self-care if another episode does occur. This understanding allows an entire community to accommodate for the needs of each individual person within it, especially those who know chronic conditions, recurrent crises, emotional disturbances, and other marginalizing experiences. The community comes together in times of crisis as in times of joy. During and following (and, ideally, before) a personal conflict, the community can meet or support a variety of personal and domestic needs. Childcare, pet care, meal preparation, and labor can be adequately redistributed in a community whose basic needs of survival and security are already met. Further, specialty counseling may be sought from outside the community if needed. The specific needs of the individual experiencing the conflict must be centered and addressed for the individual to avoid making the conflict worse over time.
