Meeting Agenda Sep 30th OTG Denver

Mantra: IF WE ARE NOT INCLUDING THE MOST MARGINALIZED PERSON, WE CANNOT MAKE MEANINGFUL, SUSTAINABLE PROGRESS.    

### Goals from this meeting  

Sign up in ()

1.  Hot food/bev days ()  
    
2.  Salvage outdoor gear from dumpsters ()  
    
3.  Solicit donations of gear and $ ()  
    
4.  Tech hrs at libraries specific to Houseless folks, call career dev for public funding ()  
    
5.  Street art crew ()  
    
6.  Collect List of resources ()  
    
7.  Gather zine submissions ()  
    
8.  Ask Lifestraw to donate filters ()  
    
9.  Ask Eldorado Water for water donation ()  
    
10.  Write scripts for soliciting donations ()  
    

### **Goals (from last meeting)**  

Protected calendar to keep track of volunteer availability ()

1.  [redacted] can forward the one she made  
    
2.  HOES can fill in gaps potentially but v focused on cap hill for now   
    
3.  not found a secure platform for this yet  
    
4.  Is encryption a requirement? If so, we will either have to pay or not have a collaborative calendar (1 person can maintain, all can share, or another solution). **Mailfence and Fruux** have free, encrypted options. **Thunderbird Lightning** is also free. ProtonMail has one in beta that will be free upon launch (unknown when). If encryption is less important than collaboration, **Doodle** can be setup to accommodate camp signups, I think up to a month in advance.  
    

On call volunteers (for what types of things?)

1.  Sweep response group includes people who live and work near the camps

Fundraising - still definitely needs support

1.  event?  
    
2.  how can we get more social media spread?  
    
3.  [redacted] has been painting watercolors based on $$ donations --> water (advertising through IG)  
    
4.  fort Collins homeless coalition - [redacted] talking to them tomorrow about how to get donations from corporations + getting support from them as a 501c3  
    
5.  [redacted] give [redacted] # of grant writer to support getting grants  
    
6.  Brainstorming doc [https://pad.riseup.net/p/A2fvzDenAt8B0DfWpk3Y-keep](https://pad.riseup.net/p/A2fvzDenAt8B0DfWpk3Y-keep) (ignore info about brainstorming sessions, that's for group scenarios; but we could totally arrange a text-storm/schedule a 5-10 minute "text meeting" where we all text any idea into the chat)  
    
7.  Type up some reaching out scripts pre-fundraising ([redacted], help appreciated) - [redacted] can support: send docs on fundraising asks from COPA  
    
8.  Plan inbounding details and regular new volunteer meetings () - send ideas of what Qs would help to [redacted]

1.  This document is kind of an info sheet on SHC and what it does. May be helpful in sorting out the different ways to get involved: [https://pad.riseup.net/p/9hJQxw3mDCdcfT-iKOWI-keep](https://pad.riseup.net/p/9hJQxw3mDCdcfT-iKOWI-keep)

Libraries to set up tech hrs for houseless folks, charging and internet

1.  Central Tue-Fri 12-3pm first come, first serve (as of July)  
    
2.  volunteer support? Through career specialists, etc  
    
3.  A library rep said there is an org that sends volunteers to help with voter registration...can't think of their name right now but I had heard of it when she told me.  
    
Partner with DHOL, FNB to do weekly/regular meals  

1.  DHOL does not want to be known for doing meals themselves, but using the space is an option.  
    
2.  There are chefs/restaurateurs among the camps who haven't seemed super interested in participating, but could change their minds if they get to come for a meal and see the kitchen. These folks usually say they cook alone (1 cook in the kitchen)
    
3.  one morning, afternoon, or meeting per month? Regular schedule so ppl know where and when to find nutrition & sustenance <3  
    
4.  [redacted] can ask anti-famine about this? Also HOES folks  
    
5.  food not bombs? Others?  
    

### **Outreach**  

\- other needs  

*   food, hot food/bev days (see above)

*   tents & sleeping bags  
    

*   Too expensive to purchase regularly without a fund  
    

*   People who visit camps should salvage intact tents, sleeping bags, and blankets when able. Sleeping bags and blankets are washed by laundry volunteers.  
    

*   other connections? Ppl who work at outdoor stores, soliciting donations, keep a eye out (stores throwing out returns- check Lowe's!!), dumpster diving   
    

*   [redacted] has a dumpster diving group on FB; trash dweller society too; others??  
    

*   Hang out by abandoned tents to see if we can save gear - definitely viable, ask tent neighbors if the owner has moved on  
    

*   use vehicles to save and store gear   
    

*   computer time

*   libraries have limited hrs  
    

*   could we staff specific time for houseless folks, call it career dev for funding  
    

*   solar companies and schools to donate charging stations

\- communication and information access  

*   help set up emails to receive newsletter and can email us

*   google voice number with voicemail dictating upcoming resources/events

*   next hot food  
    

*   sweep dates  
    

*   stuff not on 211  
    

*   consitent outreach sched

*   map of resources ([redacted] can do graphic,)

*   flyering & wheatpasting???

\- zine submissions (send to [redacted] or [redacted])  

*   More info about what type of content?

*   stories from folks on the ground, in the streets?

*   tips for doing distribution & outreach??

*   selling copies to fundraise?

*   [redacted] sending draft to group for feedback

*   individual blogs to be published--> publish in zine altogether

*   Email chain to be started ([redacted] and [redacted])  
    

\- artists for art event Nov 13th weekend (Meeting Oct 2nd)  

*   Ask ppl Otg if they would like to perform/showcase art

\- How do we build consistency?  

*   Plans/a schedule + more volunteers

*   Accountability (discuss what this could look like)

\- get copy of 211 book for Denver county  

*   Add other denver resources in a document ([redacted]) + add these lists to SHC website ([redacted])

\- mental health services as road to case management  

*   In Denver, seems like MHCD would be the org to coordinate with. Many folks at the camps receive services from MHCD. From my friends' experiences, they aren't very helpful re: housing. The case managers visit their clients on location.  
    

### **Sustainability**  

*   larger jugs/tanks for water

*   [redacted] can buy gallons from costco  
    

*   actions to get water from city  
    

*   Target denver water??? [redacted] found location  
    

*   [redacted] reach out to CAW + [redacted] and [redacted] to target them with an action  
    

*   water keys?  
    

*   contact lifestraw about donation of filters for river water

*   solicit donations from Eldo Water

*   [redacted] can ask [redacted] about this?  
    

*   contact water foundation that helped Flint?

*   look into eco education grant from Colorado

*   MAGU - Mutual Aid Groups United !!!!!!¡¡¡¡¡¡

*   Ppl are being pushed to the edges of communities so ppl aren't seen when they freeze to death >:(   
    

*   we need to build resource networks to support ppl through the winter  
    

*   [redacted] and [redacted] talking to ET & Boulder ppl about coordinating  
    

### **Volunteers**  

How do we find volunteers? How were you reached?  

*   ppl have been reached through prior connection, on the ground presence, and FB/other social media   
    

*   [redacted] sharing story on blog (Marilyn from the Mercury being shitty >:(, etc)

*   Attend denver freedom skool events to recruit (one tomorrow Thursday, another tentatively 10/18)

*   make memes about the fact that the richest country in the world won't ensure water and housing for everyone 

*   infographics too - an analysis of what is happening and why (eg, pulse for data about rent payments, unemployment, etc)  
    *   **Week 14 Household Pulse Survey: September 2 – September 14**  
        
    *   [https://www.census.gov/data/tables/2020/demo/hhp/hhp14.html?fbclid=IwAR2ciHNJu4zdEghEP1RUvKheiK6yRIUvRB\_vUn05pPVsUB4G\_R9Np-Xx2vA](https://www.census.gov/data/tables/2020/demo/hhp/hhp14.html?fbclid=IwAR2ciHNJu4zdEghEP1RUvKheiK6yRIUvRB_vUn05pPVsUB4G_R9Np-Xx2vA)  
        
    *   The Household Pulse Survey disseminates data in near real-time to measure household experiences during the pandemic. It measures employment status, food (in)security, housing, physical and mental health, access to health care, educational disruption, application & receipt of benefits, spending patterns, availability of financial resources, capacity to telework, and travel practices.  
        
    *   [https://www.census.gov/data/experimental-data-products/household-pulse-survey.html](https://www.census.gov/data/experimental-data-products/household-pulse-survey.html)  
        

What other secure platforms can we reach?

*   protonmail email blast

*   Michelle @ CO Poor People's Campaign has a network of 5k and asked how they can help

*   [redacted] can coordinate with email fundraiser person + person who wants to coordinate volunteering through text --> find a new day to distro

*   [redacted] can pass calls to action to michelle

### SHC current clusters  

Nov art show & action  

Water distro  

*   Noco OTG  
    

*   Denver OTG  
    

R&CI - Research & Corporate Interaction  

Website  

Blog/zine (newsletter later) - [redacted] and [redacted] rn  

Fund/fundraising  

street art team ([redacted] resurrect)  

*   For flyering etc   
    

*   [redacted] and [redacted] collab on graphics for this and flyers and wheatpasting :)))  
    

### SHC pending clusters  

Sweep response (exist through DHOL, can connect to)  

*   Risk of arrest to save ppls things against the cops   
    

*   document as much as possible!!!  
    

*   defending encampments is easier when ppl are fed & in larger numbers/established  
    

*   they have an email blasts, always asking for ppl  
    

Hot food distro  

*   Remember we can get food from food banks and use DHOL kitchen  
    

Social media hype ([redacted])  

*   Groups not on signal  
    

newsletter (early stages)  

Conflict resolution  

*   Plans and outlines  
    

Petition/script writing - [redacted] [redacted] and [redacted]  

### **Security**  

How many people do we want max in a signal chat?

*   As many as are regularly responding - [redacted] 

What other platfroms do you trust?

*   Wire, keybase, telegram, cryptpad, rise up pad - [redacted] 

How do you stay safe in person OTG? \[This could be an ongoing section (Safe on the Street) in the blog/zine under Mutual Aid, interview unhoused\] Do you feel safe? (this is to gather info to share with new folks, not driven by any incidents)

*    Use a nickname

*   If you haven't learned adequate boundary setting, practice saying "No" at the camps. You CANNOT do everything but you can do what you feel able. Know your limits, support ppl in recovery - all coping mechanisms are valid but some are more hurtful/long term harmful than others; check CDC rankings of diff programs, ask what facilities and programs they've tried or not tried before; being direct is best; [redacted] looking for tobacco   
    

*   Say "knock knock" or "hi there" to let people know you're nearby. Pretend the people and their belongings, including tents, have a personal bubble and do not cross it unless you ask or are invited (I even ask before using the sidewalk, if the residents have a cozy or shared setup, just to be polite.) - when walking call out what you are offering and folks sometimes respond from inside their tents 

*   Folks at the camps like people they know. Visit when you have time, say hi when you drive by, wave when you pull up, use names if you know them, bring a gift for someone specific, etc.; connect authentically!

*   If you are twitchy, nervous, or new, you might go with a buddy so residents aren't nervous.

*   go with a partner who is comfy with interacting with encampments already! 

Activity comfort level  

*   in-person outreach ([redacted], [redacted])  
    

*   actions, protests ([redacted]-ish, [redacted] if I am free, [redacted] usually remote)

*   police confrontation ([redacted] if proper planning and prep happens beforehand, [redacted] remotely)  
    

### **Plan next meeting**  

Early Nov? Before voting? Before Nov Art Event?

*   End/beginning of the month could be useful ongoing, assuming we have items to discuss when the date comes up.

*   Is it worthwhile to try to register unhoused folks? We'd have to follow up to guide folks through the ballot, assuming they arrive to St Francis (ballots begin mailing October 9, not a lot of time to prepare and folks are unlikely to vote in person). I think we need to ask them what they want and just provide what resources we can. Possibly reach out now to see if anyone wants to register to vote. -- St Francis has a voter reg table as of 10/1

*   including ppl at encampments in these kinds of convos/planning meetings

*   adding social hour for volunteers to get to know each other!!

*   future action on 16th st with dry ice and outlined bodies to being attn to ppl freezing to death