\# Meeting notes from the 5 May 2020 Zoom meeting. [redacted] took notes during this meeting.     

\## Agenda

1.  If you hear or think about something you want to head or be involved in, make note of it. We will talk about possible subgroups later in the Zoom  
    
2.  **4/30 sweep debriefing & 5/8 sweep planning**  
    1.  See on-the-ground log  
        
    2.  Businesses pose the biggest opposition to eradicating homelessness  
        
    3.  Information dissemination is an issue. **[redacted] suggests legislation with requirements regarding notice around sweeps**.  
        1.  **[redacted] potentially knows some folks in City Council**  
            
    4.  Vehicles/trucks can be used for temporary shelter during the sweep.  
        1.  **[redacted] is in contact with a moving company** that is willing to donate use of its vehicles.  
            
    5.  Fire department walks through intentionally separate from police.  
        
    6.  Folks awoke 7-730. Police + others ~8. Let’s meet 6am.  
        
    7.  Distribute: water, trash bags, snacks  
        
3.  Summary of encampments and sizes  
    
4.  General needs  
    
    1.  Unhoused folks are not homogeneous.  
        
    2.  Abby's Proclamation  
        
        1.  Hygiene  
            
        2.  Hot food  
            
        3.  Harm reduction  
            
        4.  Clean clothes  
            
    3.  Always needed by just about everyone: water, trash bags, alcohol wipes, housing/motel vouchers  
        
        1.  **Water – refillable bladders?**  
            
        2.  Face mask size: 22"x22" or 22"x10"  
            
    4.  Toilet access  
        
        1.  5 gallon bucket - gastrointestinal risks  
            
        2.  **[redacted] will do on-the-ground research** to see what folks would like  
            
    5.  Stimulus support for non-filers (guide available)  
        
    6.  Storage pickup for folks who lost items in the sweep  
        
    7.  DIY handwashing/lite laundering stations with basin  
        
    8.  **[redacted]: A small community can be provided self-sustaining resources**. It will prevent folks from being scattered and harassed on a regular basis.  
        
5.  Mention of safety concerns  
    
    1.  Power = control of resources  
        
    2.  Women & gender issues  
        
    3.  Drugs, especially pokes  
        1.  Sharps collection  
            
        2.  Needle exchange  
            
    4.  Sharing cups, devices, pipes, etc  
        1.  Wipes  
            
        2.  Lots of belongings are lost in sweps, so lots of tools are shared  
            
    5.  Outreach & education - drug safety, resource availability  
        1.  Countering misinformation? Is this worthwhile or helpful?  
            
        2.  For example, Shrek is a self-identified teacher of others and believes the virus is a hoax by incompetent government; compared it to influenza.  
            
    6.  Long-term need  
        1.  Post-pandemic continuation  
            
        2.  Sustainability: environment, money  
            
        3.  Eradication of houselessness / Housing First model  
            
    7.  Subgroups  
        1.  Daily check-ins and water distribution  
            
        2.  Resource sources, tackling the Pink List  
            
        3.  Programming  
            
        4.  Fundraising and distribution  
            
        5.  Marketing/Graphics  
            
        6.  DHOL/liasion  
            
        7.  Urgent response, ie cops or imminent sweep  
            
        8.  Covert actions